.. vim: ft=rst sts=2 sw=2 tw=70
.. default-role:: literal

========================
Admin-oriented resources
========================

.. contents::

Common
******

This document uses the following "macros" to reduce the chattiness,
as well as the churn induced by involving this proposal.

$CT:readonly-mode
  application/vnd.suse.studio.readonly-mode.v3+json


Read-only Mode
**************

**GET /admin/readonly-mode**

Example: ::

  < GET /admin/readonly-mode
  < Accept: $CT:readonly-mode

  > 200 Ok
  > Content-Type: $CT:readonly-mode
  >
  > {
  >   instance: "https://example.com/"
  > , readonly: true
  > }

**PUT /admin/readonly-mode**

Example: ::

  < PUT /admin/readonly-mode
  < Content-Type: $CT:readonly-mode
  < Prefer: return=minimal
  <
  < {
  <   instance: "https://example.com/"
  < , readonly: false
  < }

  > 204 No Content


Runners
*******

**GET /runners**

List runners.

**POST /runners**

Ping, Sync, Disable, or Change configuration of one or more runners.

**DELETE /runners/:hostname**

Drop a runner.

**POST /runners/:hostname**

Ping, Sync, Disable, or (un)Prefer a runner.

**PUT /runners/:hostname**

Create or update a runner.


Builds
******

**GET /builds/running**

List running builds.

**GET /builds/queued**

List queued builds.


Uploads to Amazon
*****************

**GET /amazons/running**

List running uploads.

**GET /amazons/queued**

List queued uploads.


Uploads to Azure
****************

**GET /azures/running**

List running uploads.

**GET /azures/queued**

List queued uploads.


Cron Jobs
*********

**GET /cron**

List cron jobs.

**POST /cron**

Process cron jobs.


Cron Job
********

**DELETE /cron/:job**

Drop a cron job.

**GET /cron/:job**

Show info on a cron job.

**POST /cron/:job**

Run a cron job.

**PUT /cron/:job**

Create a cron job.


Base Repositories
*****************

**GET /base-repositories**

List base repositories.

**POST /base-repositories**

Enable or disable base repositories.


Appliance Templates
*******************

**GET /base-systems**

List base systems.

**POST /base-systems**

Enable or disable base systems.

